hey you got here just in time imagine
this it's late into the evening you're
just about to go to sleep and you hear
the kitchen window creak footsteps
someone's inside and you're in a panic
it's a terrifying situation to imagine
but it can happen to anyone so here are
a few tips on what to do in this scary
situation and how you can keep intruders
out of your home in the first place just
don't forget to subscribe and ring the
notification bell so that you don't miss
a thing here on the bright side get to
know your neighbors
obviously you can't be home 24/7 that's
why you need some extra eyes on your
house for when you're away so get on
friendly terms with those who live
around you let them know your schedule
habits or routine for example let's say
you always leave the light on in the
upstairs bathroom that way if anything
is wrong or suspicious is happening in
or around your house
perhaps your bathroom light is switched
off your neighbors will notice it don't
keep expensive things on display now
this tip might seem pretty obvious when
it comes to keeping your home burglar
free but it's important to mention
showing off your costly stuff doesn't do
you any good if anything it only gives
ideas to shady people if you have a shed
or garage tuck your expensive equipment
in there once you're done using it
otherwise you might one day find
yourself one lawn mower short keep
ladders and toolboxes locked up inside
your home could be a full-on fortress
fit with high-end safety technology and
state-of-the-art door and window locks
but if you carelessly left a ladder
outside for the day you could come back
from work only to find that your house
has been robbed
because you forgot to protect your
chimney a toolbox left out in the open
also looks like an invitation to break
and enter
install motion sensor lighting a flash
of bright light in the dark of night may
help you kill two birds with one stone
by the way that's just an expression no
animals were harmed in the making of
this video
now sudden bright lights will disorient
the criminal for a few moments and give
you a heads up that something's going on
in or around your house yep you heard
that right motion sensor light fittings
are better installed both outside and
inside your home while putting them
outside is pretty obvious installing
some in your house gives you a huge
advantage you know that your rooms will
get lit up when you enter them burglars
however have no clue in more ways than
one keep your lawn trimmed while you're
away before we head out on a big trip
most of us are good about checking doors
and windows but how often do you think
about your yard if you won't be home for
a while it's best to create an illusion
that your house is still inhabited
burglars don't like it when someone's
home they prefer the job to be as quick
and easy as possible so if your lawn is
unkempt it's a clear sign that nobody's
around to tend to it hire someone to do
it for you while you're away so that the
wrong people don't get the wrong idea
you can also ask friends or neighbors
you trust to check inside the house from
time to time for a better effect have
your mail collected if your mailbox is
brimming with newspapers fliers and
other correspondence and junk mail while
you're away it also sends potential
burglars a message that nobody's been
home for a while
have someone collect your mail and
suspend your subscriptions if possible
to keep your mailbox from advertising
your absence don't publicize your
vacation plans since we're on the topic
of leaving your house for some prolonged
period of time don't forget that it's
best to keep this information as private
as possible you can share vacation plans
with your trusted people especially if
you need them to check in on your house
while you're away but social media is
definitely a no-no these are known to
monitor other people's posts about
upcoming vacations in order to find
their next target
creepy leave a bathroom light on while
you're away and here's another way you
can make it look like somebody's still
home when the house is actually empty
I know leaving a light on isn't exactly
the best for your wallet but it's just
for when you go on vacation and you can
always put that light on a timer that
goes on just at night get a canine
companion if you're a dog owner like me
one added bonus of having such an
awesome pet is that the sight or sound
of one can keep burglars away and if you
don't have a pooch just fake it put up a
beware of dog sign for instance it'll
make thieves less likely to choose your
house as their target hide your
valuables well a built in wall safe is
the best measure by far but if you don't
have one you can still use your
imagination and find lots of places to
stash your valuables a decoy book or toy
is good enough or you can even get more
creative by making your own hiding place
like a sliding pile in the bathroom cut
down trees near a two-story house while
burglars are more likely to break into a
house from the first floor they can see
an opportunity and a tall growing tree
that looks right into a window on the
second floor you'll do best by cutting
or trimming it so that no one can make
their way in from there install an alarm
yeah this sounds pretty obvious but you
shouldn't forget that burglars love
silence they prefer to go about their
business quietly so that they don't
bring attention to themselves makes
sense right so if they come in and
trigger an alarm that wakes everybody up
they've already failed and will want to
retreat as fast as they can
don't let strangers in a vast majority
of burglaries are perpetrated by people
who have been to your house before
whenever you invite someone you don't
know inside you're basically letting
them window shop for goodies and scope
out any security measures you've
undertaken if the potential burglars
your house to their liking you're almost
guaranteed to get robbed later these
strangers might disguise themselves as
service workers like electricians or
plumbers so always double-check that a
company has sent someone to your house
keep a large pair of work boots outside
your door if you leave a large pair of
work boots on your porch they'll get a
potential burglar thinking that there's
someone home at the moment plus big
boots
make it look like a big guy lives there
not many criminals would risk getting
caught and beat up by some huge dude
uh-uh no sir if you hear someone in your
house don't turn on the lights you know
your home better than anyone so you can
probably get around it even in pitch
dark burglars will be much more careful
when going about their business so you
will have an advantage here avoid using
a flashlight too it'll give away your
position keep it simple
as much as you may love lavishness you'd
better at least keep it away from prying
eyes burglars have a good eye for
valuable items if you put your money
time and effort into decorating your
front yard for example it's likely that
you do the same thing for the inside of
your house keep the front lawn as simple
as possible it'll save you from unwanted
attention be careful with your trash yep
that's right your garbage can tell
potential robbers what to look for in
your house for example if you throw away
the box from a brand new flat-screen TV
they'll know you have one it's as simple
as that
the same goes for any other trash you
produce so either recycle it or get rid
of it in a more obscure way
so which anti burglary tips can you add
to this list leave them down in the
comments so we can steal them oh and
please remember to give this video a big
thumbs up share it with your friends and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]